Director Goliss looked out her room's large window at the Martian
landscape. Her room was the only one with a panoramic view of the building
site. Directorship did have some priviledges. But the responsibilities were
huge too. Large automated 'earth' mover and construction machines sat idle and
silent, scattered over the relatively flat area just outside of the
preparation team's site. Up until this morning the robotic machines were
running around the clock building the colony streets and buildings in
preparation for the arrival of the full colony ships. She had halted the
machines this morning. The news from Van Halen wasn't good.

"What a waste of time," she said to herself. "We need these machines
running. We don't have a moment to waste."  Her eyes dropped to the tablet she
was holding in her hands and she reviewed the message from last night. No
change. Still bad news.

"Well, time to tell the troops." She left her quarters and headed towards the
common room.

Paul waited with the rest of the crew in the common room getting ready for the
Director's daily briefing. He sat next to Addie, the superstar programmer from
the trip out to Mars. She really was good at what she did. He hoped he could
keep up with her.

Conversation from the other prep team members in the room was lively and
spirits were high. So far the progress for all teams, except food production,
had been great. Paul gathered bits of information from the conversations
floating across the room and it was clear that many of the groups were even
ahead of schedule.

Everyone quieted down when the Director walked in. She strode towards the
front of the room. Paul said something to her as she walked by and she smiled
a response back to him. Samantha, from Communications, intercepted
her. Something was bothering the wildly gesticulating communications scientist
but it wasn't clear what she's saying. Paul smiled, it was Samantha. She was
always high-strung. Maybe the baud rate back to Earth dropped by a few bits
per second. In the middle of a particularly large hand gesture Director Goliss
held up her own hand to make Samantha stop. She smiled at her but then stepped
past her to get up to where she could start the meeting. Samantha plopped back
into her seat with a pout.

"Good morning, everyone," the director started. "I see that you are all, well
almost all in a good mood." She glanced towards Samantha. "I can understand
why, based on the reports I've been seeing. Many of you are ahead of
schedule. If you don't mind the pun I'll say that it's clear that 'Bon Jovi
Rocks!'" A smattering of groans and chuckles rippled through the room.

"First off I want to say Happy Birthday to our birthday boy today. Bryce,
Happy Birthday." The shaggy haired man from HR stood up waving at everyone. He
looked like a sterotypical 'surfer dude' from San Diego, his hometown. "Yo
dudes!" He flashed a sly smile around the room. "Hey. Free cake today. It's on
me!".

"All of the food is free here," Robert called from across the room. Bryce
shruged and smiled, "Still doesn't change what I said. Free cake today, even
if it is recyled." Everyone laughed, even the director, as Bryce sat back
down.

"I also want to congratulate our software team on doing an excellent job on
the site survey software. Van Halen said that they were able to get exactly
the data that they needed." She looked at Paul and Addie, making small
applause. Various utterances of "Good job" or "Way to go" came at them
from others in the room.

"I'm afraid that's where the good news ends. Some of you may have noticed that
the building machines stopped this morning. Last night I received a message
from Van Halen and it's not good. The original plans for the early staging
locations, like our lovely home here, expected that there would be a lot more
resources available and within easy reach. It turns out that that's not
true. At the rate we are consuming water and energy, we aren't collecting
enough of those same resources to keep the station viable. It has always been
a part of the plan to build out resource harvesters but we thought we had more
time. Turns out we don't. As of this morning, all other construction has been
halted so that we can focus all resources on building water, and energy
stations." Many of the team members gasped at this news.

Vita, from the construction team, immediately jumped up. "What are we going to
do? We can't have the colony construction stopped. We need to have the
buildings ready by the time the full colony ships arrive!"

The director waved Vita down with a calming gesture. "Yes, I know. But if we
run out of water and energy before then, we'll all die and that won't help
either. We have options. Van Halen is developing a plan for locating sites to
build solar collectors, water harvesters, and wind turbines. We're going to
retrofit our builders to build those structures. Van Halen thinks they'll be
ready in a couple weeks. We should have our builders changed by then."

The directory looked at Paul and Addie. "I'm afraid that the missing piece is
software again. We'll need to rewrite the software in each of the builders to
be able to recieve commands from Van Halen and initiate the building of the
structures. We'll also need the software to track the path that a builder
follows so that it can build cables and pipes from all of the stations back
here."

A few people nodded in agreement and more than a few glanced in Paul and
Addie's direction.

"Yes. Of course," Paul replied. "We'll start as soon as we get the details."
He was excited but also felt a sense of responsibility.

Samantha piped up, "What if the software isn't finished in time? What are we
going to do?" She asked the director and then glared at Paul and Addie. Vita
also looked in their direction. "I have to have the building robots started
again. And I mean building the colony buildings, like dormatories and
stuff. Right away!"

"Well, first of all, I have high confidence in the team." Director Goliss
replied. "But secondly, we have to restart building in four weeks if we're
going to have any chance at being ready. That gives us two weeks to get the
machines retrofitted and the software written, then another week of building,
then the fourth week to convert the builders back to their original
function. If the software, or any of that, doesn't work out, we'll just have
to restart building and find a different way to get the water and energy we
need." She smiled at the two developers. "No pressure, right?"

The Director continued, "I think that's everything for today. I'll need each
of the non-software teams to start working on the builders. Please pitch in
wherever you can." She paused for a few seconds. "Are there any questions?"

Paul noticed that the team's mood was much more serious now than when the
meeting started. Vita muttered something about "two weeks". Everyone was
looking a little nervous. Samantha started to raise her hand to ask a question
but changed her mind.

"Ok. Then that's the meeting. I'll talk to each of you later. And Happy
Birthday Bryce."

